[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: This is my preferred
place to teach JavaScript, so
it's such an honor to
keep being part of it.
We just did a quick count.
This will be my ninth course taught for
front end masters, so
that's pretty exciting.
And I always tell this.
It's actually,
the first place I ever taught.
Mark gave me my start as a teacher,
called me up out of the blue and
said I think you should come teach.
And I've made a career
out of it since then.
So it's an honor to come back to
that place and to talk to you about,
I think maybe one of the most
important topics that I've taught on.
Which is really kind of beckoning towards
the future of where
the JavaScript language is headed.
And that future,
I believe, is very bright.
It's a really good future.
There was a long period of what we would
call the dark ages for this language.
And some of you like me,
were around to experience that.
To experience all the problems of
feeling like the language was just dead,
it was dead in the water,
it wasn't going anywhere.
And now we are in this period of rapid
growth expansion of the language.
And there are a ton of things that have
been added over the last year or two.
If you kind of been taking a nap for
the last year or two and
you wake up,
it's not the same JavaScript anymore.
You can't read a blog post these
days without seeing an arrow
function somewhere.
Or some new feature that somebody wants,
like the double colon bind operator,
which isn't even in the spec yet but
we already write code assuming
that that thing is coming, right?
So the language is rapidly evolving.
And those of us who spend time writing and
teaching about JavaScript
have to grapple with what does that
mean if I write something, and
then six months later that
thing is already obsolete?
So it's a fun and
exciting time for the language.
There are a lot of amazing things added,
and
then there are some things
that maybe aren't so great.
And there's a lot of subjectivity of
course, everybody has their own opinions.
Today's class, ES6, The Right Parts,
is designed to give you an opinionated
guide through the things.
Not just,
am I saying these are the correct parts.
But I really mean these are the right
parts for you to focus on first.
That's what I really mean by the title.
What I really mean,
is this is the right stuff that you
should be paying attention to first.
And I'm gonna give you
my own personal take,
my own narrative on why I
think ES 6 is important.
It's really all about using the tools
that are now in the language,
to affect a goal that I
think we should have had for
a long time that most of
us really didn't adopt for.
And maybe haven't even fully yet adopted.
But it's become such a deeply held belief
of mine as an educator in JavaScript,
that you could almost call
it a religious belief.
That code is not about
instructing the computer.
Code is about communicating
with other human beings.
[COUGH] We are really good at
instructing the computer on what to do.
Many of you are expert developers.
But how good are you at
communicating to other human beings?
Did you know that researchers say
that within the span of time that
you spend maintaining your code.
And let's be honest.
Most of us, our jobs are more
primarily maintaining existing code.
Not opening up a brand new blank file,
and writing brand new code for
the first time, all day every single day.
Maybe you're lucky
enough to have that job.
But most of us spend our time
developing on code that already exists,
either code that we wrote yesterday or
last week or last month or
something that somebody
else wrote on our team.
Maybe even somebody that
wrote it years ago and
we're maintaining legacy code,
as they say.
Right.
Right, so
we spend most of our
time maintaining code.
And researcher say, in the time that
you spend maintaining your code,
which is the majority of your day,
did you know that you spend 70% of your
time just reading to understand the code?
No wonder the global average for
lines of code written by a deprogrammer
is under five lines of code per day.
Because we spend 7 hours and
49 minutes a day reading the damn
thing before we can figure out what five
lines to write and where to put them.
Because we really,
if we're honest about it,
we kind of prioritize authorship of code.
Don't we prioritize how quick and easy and
fast it is for us to write our code, and
maybe not so much pay attention
to what it is to read the code?
And I think many times,
people conflate these two.
If I can write the code easily,
that means the code is easily read.
The fewer characters I have to write,
the fewer characters somebody has to read.
These seem to go logically together, and
yet actually, they fly directly
in competition with each other.
That same set of study and
research that I'm talking about suggests
that the notion of readability is not
quite so subjective as we might assume.
Most people probably assume
that readability is all about
your own personal preference, and there's
no way to possibly make a statement about
whether something is readable or not.
And these researchers set about to
figure out if there was a way to have
an automated metric for
this code readability thing.
And they discovered that the most
important factor that leads to somebody
judging a piece of code as readable,
is familiarity.
Have you seen that code before, or
have you seen that pattern of code before?
If you have, regardless of how
many characters it includes,
you call it readable.
And if you haven't, regardless of how many
characters, you call it not readable.
It's just simply, are we familiar with it?
Now we oftentimes just assume everybody
on the team's gonna know everything, and
we're gonna be super hyper-optimized.
We're race car that's going around
the track at a hundred miles an hour.
I worked at this startup one time,
the CEO of the startup used the stupid
metaphor like we're a race car and
we have to change the tires
without a pit stop, right?
It's the dumbest,
stupid startup metaphor ever, right?
But that's kind of how we
think about writing our code.
We're all like this finely tuned machine,
and
we don't have to worry about
bringing people up to speed.
Except don't we?
Isn't there always gonna be
a new person joining the team?
And isn't it always the case
when a new person joins a team,
you just sort of say hey,
first two weeks, week or two,
just go read the code to figure
out what it's doing, right?
Anybody in here like me,
I had a lot of jobs and
I was always told just go read
the code to understand it.
Do you know how much I actually
understood from reading the code?
Very, very little.
Because I think that
team probably prioritized
writing the code efficiently as a team,
as a well tuned machine.
And didn't always necessarily think about
what's it gonna be like if somebody
reads this and isn't already familiar?
Is there are moderator question?
Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: From the channel,
are there any links to this research?
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah I will throw
out some links to the research.
There's specifically,
there's a white paper that I've read
about automated code readability.
If you Google search automated code
readability, you'll probably find it.
But that white paper cites some
other papers on this research.
>> Kyle Simpson: So, I think it's really
important that we maybe put reader of
the code, as a more important
priority than writer of the code.
So with that as our backdrop,
we turn our attention to ES6.
And most people think that ES6 is all
about a whole bunch of brand new shiny
toys that make us have
more fun writing our code.
And I'm gonna tell you that it's not so
much about writing your code.
But it's really more about
making that code more readable.
Specifically, there's
a notion in programming, and
maybe you've heard this before.
But there's a distinction that
we make between styles of code.
And typically we can put code
into somewhere in a spectrum, but
into two camps,
imperative versus declarative.
Some of you may have seen
frameworks out there that kind of
sway heavily one way or the other.
For example Angular, and
it's very declarative,
we put all of the stuff in the markup.
And there are other frameworks
which I think would be more in
the imperative scale, like for
example an ember or something like that.
So we have this spectrum of
imperative versus declarative.
Here's how to put it simply.
Imperative means telling
the computer how to do something.
Declarative means telling the computer
what the end result should be.
Let the computer figure
out how to do it best.
Okay.
Now it is not the case that
all declarative code or
all imperative code is correct.
That is not the case that
that will be the best code is
if you swing that pendulum
one way either way.
It is however, the case that many times
declarative code used appropriately,
used measured, used with caution,
declarative coding style does
tend to be more readable to those who
are not already familiar with the program.
If I threw up an algorithm here and
I had a bunch of for loop and
if statements and stuff.
You would have to read every single
line of that and trace through,
essentially run the program in your
head to understand what it was doing.
But if I used a declarative form that
just simply said here's the end result,
I want all these numbers
squared minus one.
>> Kyle Simpson: Right,
I don't want you to have to go through and
figure out what that is.
I wanna just tell you
that's what this code does.
And a declarative form,
a syntax that is a declarative form,
says the end result should be number
squared minus one, and allows as
much of possible, allows that to be taken
care of as an implementation detail.
So, ES6.
The narrative that I wanna leave you or I
wanna start today, not leave you, I wanna
start today with, is that ES6 is really
about adding more declarative forms.
So that we can take the idioms,
all the stuff that we've been
doing in our existing code, and
express them in a way that will be, once
somebody learns ES6, much more familiar.
Because a person will not have to spend so
much time reading through each of
the details of the logic,
they'll be able to recognize at a glance,
the declarative form and
know what that declarative form is doing.
The goal being that we make
that's more readable, for
those who aren't already
familiar with our code.
So wherever possible today,
I'm actually gonna give you the before and
the after comparison.
I'm gonna try to start with
what we've been doing, and
then talk about what we can now do.
Not new functionality per se,
virtually nothing in ES6 is something
you couldn't do at all before.
It's a few little things, but
most of it is just a better way to
communicate what we've always been doing.
Okay, and I also want to point out this.
Don't miss this point.
There's an awful lot of narrative around
ES6 that says blank is the new blank.
Arrow is the new function.
LET is the new var.
We've rushed to this idea that all the new
stuff means all the old stuff sucks.
And it's legacy and it's bloat if
you're using all the old stuff.
And you'll actually find very
little of that from me today.
I don't think that there are very many
examples in the history of programming,
where that has held globally true,
blank is the new blank.
This is an additive set of tools that
gives us more ability to communicate what
we want.
But all the existing stuff stays valid.
We preserve backwards compatibility.
As a matter of fact,
there are gonna be things, and
I'm gonna disagree with
a lot of my peers here.
But there are gonna be things
that we've been doing,
that we're gonna continue to keep doing.
We should keep using certain features.
Like for example, shockingly, I'm gonna
tell you, you should keep using functions.
And I'm gonna tell you,
you should keep using the var keyword.
We'll go through all of this stuff.
Just because we have the new stuff and
there are places where that
will be more communicated,
doesn't mean that the old stuff needs to
necessarily be thrown out the window.
Okay, so look at the ES6 as a way to
improve the readability of your code,
not throw away all the old
stuff that we've already known.